# Into the Edu-verse: New Teachers’ Challenges, Supports, and Social Media

*Slide deck for AECT 2020*

## Introduction
 
New teachers face numerous challenges during their transition from preparation programs into professional employment (i.e., their induction period). One challenge is a “two worlds pitfall” (Feiman-Nemser & Buchmann, 1985) caused by conflicting messages from the academic world of preparation programs and the practical world of professional teaching contexts. Furthermore, new teachers are no longer seeking help from just two worlds. Through social media, educators’ traditional two worlds have expanded to a universe of many worlds, an “edu-verse.” Thus, new teachers may have to navigate conflicting messages about what and how to teach from their preparation program, local employment context, and social media platforms to decide how they will enact educational practice. However, research on educators’ use of social media has rarely focused on the particular challenges experienced by new teachers. The purpose of this study is to explore what supports for professional learning new teachers seek during induction, from whom, and how, if at all, they use social media with the intention of seeking supports and connections.

## Method

This study addresses four research questions: RQ1. What supports for professional learning are new teachers seeking during induction? RQ2. What reasons do new teachers report for seeking these supports? RQ3. What interpersonal connections do new teachers make when seeking supports for professional learning during induction? RQ4. How, if at all, do new teachers use social media to seek these supports for professional learning during induction? Because the intersection of teacher induction and educators’ social media use is under-researched, I conducted semi-structured interviews with nine new teachers to ask them about their experiences.

## Results

Related to RQ1, I found that interview participants sought supports related to implementing curricula and understanding standards, finding resources, classroom management, interacting with parents, and dealing with time constraints. Several participants looked for emotional supports in the form of venting and seeking encouragement. Participants also described a number of supports that would have been helpful, but are currently missing, such as a district-wide gathering for teachers by subject or policy advocacy for creating more flexibility in how to teach toward standards.

Related to RQ2, I found several common themes for why new teachers seek these supports. Some supports are job requirements, such as working with a mentor teacher, participating in a professional learning community, or attending district professional development; these were sometimes viewed as unhelpful or a waste of time. Participants also reported tensions between pedagogy taught by preparation programs and curricular expectations or the philosophies of veteran co-teachers. Participants noted additional struggles related to professional isolation experienced by specialist teachers (e.g., music, physical education) and starting in the classroom midyear. Participants sometimes did not seek supports because they felt overwhelmed by losing a planning period.

Related to RQ3, participants often equated interpersonal connections synonymous with supports for professional learning; that is, distinguishing these in my questioning did not make sense to participants. Still, in their description of supports, participants described relationships important to them, including individual teachers (e.g., mentors, peers in the school, outside friends), administrators, and professional groups like the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM).

Related to RQ4, participants described several ways they use social media to seek supports. They described Facebook groups, proprietary discussion forums (such as those hosted by NCTM), and email listservs as places to ask questions related to induction challenges, from big picture ideas to finding resources. Similarly, they reported using local and private platforms for similar purposes, such as a group messaging app like Groupme and a Google Classroom shell where English teachers in the same school could share resources. Platforms like Instagram, YouTube, and blogs were described as places to get inspiration and ideas but not asking questions, and Pinterest and TeachersPayTeachers as tools for locating specific teaching materials. Although all participants were required to use Twitter as part of their Master’s programs, and many were aware of the possibilities afforded by “teacher Twitter” for public interactions similar to those occurring in private forums, few of the participants preferred Twitter for these purposes.

## Discussion

Several themes are worth noting. First, context seemed to be related to how new teachers experience challenges and seek supports. For the teacher working in an urban setting where her classroom is literally crumbling, self-reported challenges were basic necessities and large, systemic issues. This teacher was suspicious of what she perceived to be normal social media behavior by teachers, where everything is pretty, pristine, and inspiring. Meanwhile, for teachers who self-described their schools as places with every material resource provided, challenges were related to the specifics of teaching and professionalism. Second, background details like teacher role (e.g., specialists, itinerant teachers) and starting process (e.g., getting hired midyear) seemed to matter. Third, participants described their practices in terms similar to a “media ecology,” with multiple platforms in play, often used for distinct purposes. Nearly all participants described maintaining strict separation between professional and personal uses of social media, for a variety of reasons—including wariness about backlash from students, parents, and administrators regarding sharing opinions online. Multiple participants explicitly stated that they saw the value of social media for seeking supports, but would prefer this to occur in a separate, private place.

These results have practical implications for new teachers, teacher educators, and teacher mentors—with timely and practical significance. Induction challenges have real effects on new teachers, who are often left to sink or swim (Ingersoll, 2012). There continue to be high rates of attrition and turnover among new teachers, with high costs to students, schools, and districts. Teacher preparation programs and induction programs have not yet solved these problems, and social media research has rarely considered these issues. Affordances of social media seem to be a promising solution; however, increased connectivity may create additional problems for new teachers even while alleviating others.

I present this research to prompt audience discussion about how we can better help new teachers’ transition into professional practice, especially regarding the role that social media should (or should not) play.
